[BoundsSafety][Doc] Add BoundsSafetyAdoptionGuide.rst (#120674)
llvm/llvm-project: clang/docs/BoundsSafetyAdoptionGuide.rst

======================================
Adoption Guide for ``-fbounds-safety``
======================================

.. contents::
   :local:

Where to get ``-fbounds-safety``
================================

The open sourcing to llvm.org's ``llvm-project`` is still on going and the
feature is not available yet. In the mean time, the preview implementation is
available
`here <https://github.com/swiftlang/llvm-project/tree/stable/20240723>`_ in a
fork of ``llvm-project``. Please follow
`Building LLVM with CMake <https://llvm.org/docs/CMake.html>`_ to build the
compiler.

Feature flag
============

> Pass ``-fbounds-safety`` as a Clang compilation flag for the C file that you

Reviewer: @rapidsna I thought `-fbound-safety` was broken in open source? I thought people needed to do `-Xclang -fbounds-safety`.. or something like that?

Author: No. `-fbounds-safety` is available as a driver in the preview implementation I pointed out.

Author: Note that the purpose of this document is to instruct people on how to use the preview implementation.

> Pass ``-fbounds-safety`` as a Clang compilation flag for the C file that you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass ``-Xclang -fbounds-safety`` as a Clang compilation flag for the C file that you
```

want to adopt. We recommend adopting the model file by file, because adoption
requires some effort to add bounds annotations and fix compiler diagnostics.

Include ``ptrcheck.h``
======================

``ptrcheck.h`` is a Clang toolchain header to provide definition of the bounds
annotations such as ``__counted_by``, ``__counted_by_or_null``, ``__sized_by``,
etc. In the LLVM source tree, the header is located in
``llvm-project/clang/lib/Headers/ptrcheck.h``.

Add bounds annotations on pointers as necessary
===============================================

> Annotate pointers on struct fields and function parameters if they are pointing

Reviewer: Nit: They might need to annotate globals and local variables too.

to an array of object, with appropriate bounds annotations. Please see
:doc:`BoundsSafety` to learn what kind of bounds annotations are available and
their semantics. Note that local pointer variables typically don't need bounds
annotations because they are implicitely a wide pointer (``__bidi_indexable``)
that automatically carries the bounds information.

Address compiler diagnostics
============================

> Once you pass ``-fbounds-safety`` to compiler a C file, you will see some new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you pass ``-Xclang -fbounds-safety`` to compiler C file, you will see some new
```

> compiler warnings and errors, which will lead you to adopt the feature and
> to remove unsafeness in the code. Consider the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compiler warnings and errors, which guide adoption of `-fbounds-safety`. Consider the following example:
```

.. code-block:: c

   #include <ptrcheck.h>

   void init_buf(int *p, int n) {
      for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
         p[i] = 0; // error: array subscript on single pointer 'p' must use a constant index of 0 to be in bounds
   }

The parameter ``int *p`` doesn't have a bounds annotation, so the compiler will

> complain about the code indexing into it (``p[i]``). To address the diagnostics,

Reviewer: Nit: Maybe note that the compiler assumes it points to a 0 or 1 `int` objects by default?

you should add a bounds annotation on ``int *p`` so that the compiler can reason
about the safety of the array subscript. In the following example, ``p`` is now
``int *__counted_by(n)``, so the compiler will allow the array subscript with
additional run-time checks as necessary.

.. code-block:: c

   #include <ptrcheck.h>

   void init_buf(int *__counted_by(n) p, int n) {
      for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
         p[i] = 0; // ok; `p` is now has a type with bounds annotation.
   }

> Run unit tests to fix new run-time traps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run test suites to fix new run-time traps
```

========================================

Adopting ``-fbounds-safety`` may cause your program to trap if it violates

> bounds safety or it has incorrect adoption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bounds safety or it has incorrect adoption. Thus it is necessary to perform runtime testing of your program to gain confidence that it won't trap at runtime.
```
